Update OCPP documentation (#64)
US-JOET/libocpp: doc/ocpp_16_README.md

![Github Actions](https://github.com/EVerest/libocpp/actions/workflows/build_and_test.yaml/badge.svg)

-----

# EVerest OCPP 1.6 Implementation (libocpp)

This C++ library provides a complete and production-ready solution for integrating OCPP 1.6 into your electric vehicle (EV) charging stations. Our implementation enables seamless communication between charging stations and central management systems, supporting remote control, monitoring, and billing functionalities.

## Table of contents

- [Functionality Support](#functionality-support)
- [CSMS Compatibility](#csms-compatibility)
- [Integration with EVerest](#integration-with-everest)
- [Standalone Integration](#standalone-integration)

>   - [Overview of the required callbacks and events and what libocpp expects to happen](#overview-of-the-required-callbacks-and-events-and-what-libocpp-expects-to-happen)

Author: ```suggestion
  - [Overview of Expected Callbacks and Event Handlers](#overview-of-expected-callbacks-and-event-handlers)
```

Reviewer: Updated

  - [Usage for OCPP 1.6](#usage-for-ocpp-16)

>     - [ChargePoint() constructor](#chargepoint-constructor)

Author: ```suggestion
    - [`ChargePoint` constructor](#chargepoint-constructor)
```

>     - [registering callbacks](#registering-callbacks)

Author: ```suggestion
    - [Registering Callbacks](#registering-callbacks)
```

    - [Authorization](#authorization)

>   - [Initialize the database](#initialize-the-database)

Author: ```suggestion
  - [Initialize the Database](#initialize-the-database)
```

- [Quickstart for OCPP 1.6](#quickstart-for-ocpp-16)

> - [Build and Install libocpp](#build-and-install-libocpp)

Author: ```suggestion
- [Build and Install `libocpp`](#build-and-install-libocpp)
```

> - [Building the doxygen documentation](#building-the-doxygen-documentation)

Author: ```suggestion
- [Building the Doxygen Documentation](#building-the-doxygen-documentation)
```

- [Unit Testing](#unit-testing)

> - [Building with FetchContent instead of EDM](#building-with-fetchcontent-instead-of-edm)

Author: ```suggestion
- [Building with FetchContent Instead of EDM](#building-with-fetchcontent-instead-of-edm)
```

- [Support for TPM keys](#support-for-tpm-keys)
- [Support for websocket++](#support-for-websocket)

> - [Support for iface](#support-for-iface)

Author: ```suggestion
- [Support for TPM Keys](#support-for-tpm-keys)
- [Support for `websocket++`](#support-for-websocket)
- [Support for `iface`](#support-for-iface)
```

 
## Functionality Support

> The EVerest OCPP 1.6 implementation (libocpp) provides comprehensive support for OCPP 1.6 functionalities. Below is an overview of the supported features:

Author: ```suggestion
The EVerest OCPP 1.6 implementation (`libocpp`) provides comprehensive support for OCPP 1.6 functionalities. Below is an overview of the supported features:
```

| OCPP 1.6 Functionality       | Supported                    |
| ---------------------------- | ---------------------------- |
| Core                         | :heavy_check_mark: Yes |
| Firmware Management          | :heavy_check_mark: Yes |
| Local Auth List Management   | :heavy_check_mark: Yes |
| Reservation                  | :heavy_check_mark: Yes |
| Smart Charging               | :heavy_check_mark: Yes |

> | Remote Trigger               | :heavy_check_mark: Yes |

Author: ```suggestion
| OCPP 1.6 Functionality       | Supported                    |
| ---------------------------- | ---------------------------- |
| Core                         | :heavy_check_mark: Yes       |
| Firmware Management          | :heavy_check_mark: Yes       |
| Local Auth List Management   | :heavy_check_mark: Yes       |
| Reservation                  | :heavy_check_mark: Yes       |
| Smart Charging               | :heavy_check_mark: Yes       |
| Remote Trigger               | :heavy_check_mark: Yes       |
```

| Whitepapers & Application Notes             | Supported              |
| ------------------------------------------- | ---------------------- |
| OCPP 1.6 Security Whitepaper (3rd edition)  | :heavy_check_mark: Yes |
| Using ISO 15118 Plug & Charge with OCPP 1.6 | :heavy_check_mark: Yes |
| OCPP & California Pricing Requirements      | :heavy_check_mark: Yes |

## CSMS Compatibility

The EVerest implementation of OCPP 1.6 has been tested against the
OCPP Compliance Test Tool (OCTT and OCTT2) during the implementation.

> The following table shows CSMS with which this library was tested.

Author: ```suggestion
The following table shows CSMSs with which this library was tested.
```

Reviewer: Updated

Author: @wancen-afs: I'm not seeing the update.

If you provide a CSMS that is not yet listed here, feel free to
[contact us](https://lists.lfenergy.org/g/everest)!

- chargecloud
- chargeIQ
- Chargetic
- Compleo
- Current
- Daimler Truck
- ev.energy
- eDRV
- Fastned
- [Open Charging Cloud (GraphDefined)](https://github.com/OpenChargingCloud/WWCP_OCPP)
- Electrip Global
- EnergyStacks
- EV-Meter
- Fraunhofer IAO (ubstack CHARGE)
- Green Motion
- gridundco
- ihomer (Infuse CPMS)
- iLumen
- JibeCompany (CharlieV CMS and Chargebroker proxy)
- MSI
- PUMP (PUMP Connect)
- Scoptvision (Scopt Powerconnect)
- Siemens
- [SteVe](https://github.com/steve-community/steve)
- Syntech
- Trialog
- ubitricity
- Weev Energy

## Integration with EVerest

The libocpp OCPP 1.6 module is automatically integrated within [everest-core](https://github.com/EVerest/everest-core) — the complete software stack for your charging station.

When you run libocpp with OCPP 1.6 through EVerest, the build process of everest-core handles the installation of all necessary dependencies. This includes initializing the device model database using the [config.json](/config/v16/config.json) file.

## Standalone Integration

> OCPP is a protocol that affects, controls and monitors many areas of a charging station's operation.

Author: ```suggestion
OCPP is a protocol that affects, controls, and monitors many areas of a charging station's operation. The `libocpp` library is just the messenger for this protocol. It is intended to provide mechanisms for connecting to and authenticating with a CSMS, sending and receiving the OCPP messages that govern behaviors in the standard, and to the track state required for a charging station to conform to the protocol all while minimizing hardware- or implementation-specific functionality.

The actual substance of how a charging station reacts to or initiates an OCPP command (such as `Reset.req` or `RemoteStartTransaction.req`) is left to the rest of the charging station's systems. This is done by providing means of (a) registering **callbacks** that can be triggered by a `libocpp` `ChargePoint` in response to certain events and (b) reacting to various **event handlers** defined on a `ChargePoint` in other areas of the charging station's codebase.
```

> If you want to integrate this library with your charging station implementation, you have to register a couple of **callbacks** and integrate **event handlers**. This is necessary for the library to interact with your charging station according to the requirements of OCPP.

Author: ```suggestion
> [!IMPORTANT] Integrating this library with your charging station requires both (a) defining **callbacks** that enable control of your station by `libocpp` and (b) calling `libocpp` **event handlers** in your charging station's systems in response to new events and data in order to keep `libocpp` up to date on station information.
```

> Libocpp needs registered **callbacks** in order to execute control commands defined within OCPP (e.g Reset.req or RemoteStartTransaction.req)
> 
> The implementation must call **event handlers** of libocpp so that the library can track the state of the charging station and trigger OCPP messages accordingly (e.g. MeterValues.req , StatusNotification.req)
> 
> Your reference within libocpp to interact is a single instance to the class [ChargePoint](/include/ocpp/v16/charge_point.hpp) for OCPP 1.6 

Author: ```suggestion
### Terminology
Throughout this document and the `libocpp` codebase, the following conventions are followed:

- A **callback** is a function providing the actual station-specific implementation of an OCPP command. It allows a `libocpp` `ChargePoint` to control other systems within a charging station. By convention, each callback on a `ChargePoint` has a name suffixed with `_callback` (for instance, `unlock_connector_callback`). A suitable `std::function` can be **registered** as a callback on a `ChargePoint` by providing it as an argument for the relevant `register_` function (such as `register_unlock_connector_callback`).

- An **event handler** is a public function defined on a `ChargePoint` that allows a charging station to update the state being tracked by the `ChargePoint` based on new information (meter values, charging session events, etc.) and (indirectly) send messages to a CSMS. By convention, the names of event handlers on the `ChargePoint` are each prefixed with `on_` (for instance, `on_meter_values`).

The complete set of callbacks and event handlers defined on an OCPP 1.6 `ChargePoint` can be viewed in the latter's [header file](/include/ocpp/v16/charge_point.hpp).
```

> ### Overview of the required callbacks and events and what libocpp expects to happen

Author: ```suggestion
### Overview of Expected Callbacks and Event Handlers
```

> The following section will give you a high level overview of how to integrate libocpp with your application. Please use the [Doxygen Documentation](#building-the-doxygen-documentation) as an additional source for the ChargePoint API.

Author: ```suggestion
The following section will give you a high-level overview of how to integrate `libocpp` with your application. Please use the [Doxygen documentation](#building-the-doxygen-documentation) as an additional source of information about the `ChargePoint` API.
```

Author: I'll refrain from doing too much additional copy editing for 1.6 until I get through the 2.0.1 docs.

In EVerest the OCPP module leverages several other modules to perform tasks that relate to authorization, reservations, charging session handling and system tasks like rebooting or firmware updates.

- Auth orchestrates authorization, utilizing different token providers like RFID reads and token validators. Libocpp mainly acts as a token validator, but in the case of RemoteStartTransactions it acts as a token provider as well
- EvseManager manages the charging session and charging state machine by communicating with a "board support package", a driver for the charging hardware that abstracts away the control pilot, relay control, power meters, etc. The EvseManager also handles reservations.
- System handles firmware updates, log uploads and resets

The following sections explain the steps you can follow to implement their functionality on your own and integrate the libocpp directly into your charging station software without relying on EVerest. However, in most cases it's much easier to write an EVerest driver using the *everest-core/interfaces/board_support_AC.yaml* interface.

### Usage for OCPP 1.6

> #### ChargePoint() constructor

Author: ```suggestion
#### `ChargePoint` Constructor
```

> The main entrypoint for libocpp for OCPP1.6 is the ocpp::v16::ChargePoint constructor.

Author: ```suggestion
The main entrypoint for `libocpp` for OCPP 1.6 is the `ocpp::v16::ChargePoint` constructor.
```
